At Deuteronomy 32:7,
Moses urged the Israelites to pause
and reflect on their spiritual heritage.
He said:
“Remember the days of old;
consider the years of past generations.”
Our museums at world headquarters
help us to do just that
—to learn about our history
and consider how Jehovah has blessed
and guided his people
through these last days.
Of course, with the COVID-19 pandemic,
visits to the museums had to be put on hold.
But the work of the Museum Department
has kept right on going!
In fact,
the Museum Department
has been busier than ever.
In this report, we will provide an update
on the work to create beautiful new museums
at dozens of branches.
These museums will help
our brothers and sisters worldwide
to explore the history of the Bible
and our rich spiritual heritage.
Each museum project starts
when a branch office
writes the Coordinators’ Committee
to request approval to develop a new museum.
Once approved,
the Coordinators’ Committee
provides direction
about the type of museum to develop.
The museum might present
the history of the Bible
in the languages of the branch territory
or a history museum showing
how the work of Jehovah’s Witnesses
developed in the branch territory
or displays that give
a behind-the-scenes look
at Bethel operations in the local branch.
The theme chosen for our museum was
“This Is the Heritage of Jehovah’s Servants.”
We were helped to see the benefits
of dividing the exhibition by time periods,
since it both aids in teaching
and lends to the theme.
We’re so grateful for the help we’ve received
from the Coordinators’ Committee
and the Museum Department.
An increased appreciation for everything
that Jehovah has done for his people
can be seen in the eyes of the visitors.
If all these projects are coordinated
through the Museum Department,
does that mean they’ll all be the same?
The answer is most definitely no.
When developing exhibits,
the Museum Department
doesn’t use a cookie-cutter,
or one-size-fits-all, approach.
We want the visitors to the exhibit
to experience the local history
and culture of the branch territory
and to be encouraged by it.
So even though we do have
a set of standard exhibit components we use,
we work very closely
with the local exhibit team
to make sure that each exhibit
is unique and enjoyable.
The Bible museum that opened
at the Argentina branch in 2019
is a good example of how museum content
is tailored to the local branch territory.
From the mid-19th century
to the beginning of the 20th century,
Argentina received millions of immigrants
from all over Europe.
And many of them brought with them
their Bibles in their native languages
—the same Bibles with which
some of them later learned the truth.
That is why it is so significant
that our new Bible exhibition contains
copies in Italian, Armenian,
and Hebrew, among others.
In Argentina, there are also many people
who speak different indigenous languages.
Therefore,
the history of the Bible in this country
would not be complete
if we did not include in our exhibition
modern translations into these languages,
such as Wichí, Toba,
Pilagá, and Mocoví, among others.
The Museum Department was also working
on a new museum at the Scandinavia branch.
This was also a Bible museum
but with a very unique story.
In our exhibition
on how the Bible and God’s name
have been preserved in Scandinavia,
we show Bibles
in all the Scandinavian languages
that use the name Jehovah
—that is, in Greenlandic, Icelandic,
Faeroese, Danish, Norwegian,
Swedish, (yes) even in Saami.
The two oldest complete Bibles we have
are the Gustav Vasa Bible  from 1541
and the Christian III Bible  from 1550.
Sadly,
these Bibles do not contain Jehovah’s name.
But interestingly, the 1550 Bible
has a handwritten note that in Latin
explains the meaning of the name Jehovah.
Our Branch Committee is so grateful
to world headquarters
for the direction given in 2019
while preparing
the Bible exhibit at the France branch.
The Museum Department
kindly offered to display an original copy
of the 1535 French Olivétan Bible.
This rare Bible is one
of the most significant Bibles on display.
Not only is it
the first Bible to be translated
from the original languages into French
but it also contains
the divine name, Jehovah.
As you can see,
our museums worldwide are providing
faith-strengthening divine education.
It takes much work to do so.
It’s a real team effort.
The Coordinators’ Committee
provides direction on the content
while Museum Department personnel
provide training
and support
for the local branch exhibit teams.
And once concepts are approved,
the Worldwide Design/Construction Department
and Regional Design/Construction Department
get involved
in organizing the construction work.
The Museum Department helped us
to select a suitable location
that would meet the standards
of a real museum.
The Worldwide Design/Construction Department
reviewed the construction process and budget.
With their assistance, we built a museum
that really is a powerful tool
to instill love for Jehovah and his Word.
In the past,
we have had various exhibits at the branch,
but this exhibit isn’t like anything
we have experienced.
Our Branch Committee
and the entire Bethel family
were so impressed
to see how Jehovah
has made this project possible.
The story of our museums
would not be complete
without mentioning
another important contributor—you!
—because many of the rare Bibles
and historical items
that are featured in our museums
were donated by you brothers and sisters.
Thank you for your generosity.
If you would like to share an item with us,
please feel free to contact
the Museum Department
at world headquarters in Warwick.
If possible,
please include a photograph of your item.
Jehovah is blessing the work being done
to provide these inspiring museums
to the worldwide brotherhood.
As of September 2021,
10 museums have already opened
and we have more than 35 under development
or in the process of being built.
Some of the next to open will be
at the Belgium, Britain,
Central America, Czech-Slovak,
Finland, Italy,
Japan, and Nigeria branches.
These museums
are powerful teaching tools
that bring our history
and the history of the Bible to life.
So as soon as conditions allow it,
please come
and explore our museums for yourself.
When you do,
we feel confident you’ll be moved to say
as did the psalmist
at Psalm 77:11-13:
“I will remember the works of Jah;
“I will remember
your marvelous deeds of long ago.
“And I will meditate
on all your activity . . .
What god is as great as you?”